
Michelle and I, we've really been milking this good boss. So it behooves me to be very brief.
You know, I said before, and I will say again, that when we started on this journey, we did so with an 
abiding faith in the American people and their ability, our ability to join together and change the country 
in ways that would make life better for our kids and our grandkids. The change didn't happen from top down, 
but happened from the bottom line.

It was met sometimes with skepticism and doubt. Some folks didn't think we could pull it off. There were those 
who felt that the institutions of power and privilege in this country were too deeply entrenched. And yet all 
of you came together in small towns and big cities. A whole bunch of you are really young and you decided to believe.
And you knocked on doors and you made phone calls and you talked to your parents who didn't know how to pronounce Barack Obama.

And you got to know each other. And you went into communities that maybe you'd never even thought about business and 
met people on the search that seemed completely different than you. You didn't look like you talk like a year, watch 
the same TV programs as you. And yet once you started talking, it turned out that you have something in common in a 
group, in a building. And people took notes.And throughout it was infused with a sense of hope. And as I said in 2004, 
it wasn't blind optimism that drove him do all this work. It wasn't naive to pay. It wasn't willful ignorance, all the 
challenges that America faces. It was hope in the face of death, hope in the face of uncertainty.

You proved the power, boy. And throughout this process, Michelle and I, we've just been your front men and women.
And throughout it was infused with a sense of hope. And as I said in 2004, it wasn't blind optimism that drove him do all this work. 
It wasn't naive to pay. It wasn't willful ignorance, all the challenges that America faces. It was hope in the face of death, hope in the face of uncertainty.

You proved the power, boy. And throughout this process, Michelle and I, we've just been your front men and women.
We have been the face, sometimes the voice out front, on the TV screen, in front of the microphone. But this has never been about us. It has always been about me. 
And all the amazing things that happen over these last are really just a testament to you. In the same way that when we talk about our amazing military, and I imagine in uniform, the military is not a thing.
It's a group of committed patriots willing to sacrifice everything on our back. It works only because we got cool hardware, as cool as the machines and weapons and satellites are. 
Ultimately, it comes down to remarkable people, some of them a lot closer to Malia. They've been minor machines. Well, the same thing is true for our democracy.

Our democracy is not the billions, not the monuments.
It's you being willing to work to make things better and being willing to listen to each other and argue with each other and come together, knock on doors and make phone calls and treat people with respect. 
And that doesn't end.
This is not a period. This is a common in the continuing storm.

It has put your heart and soul not just into our campaigns, but into making schools better, making sure our vendors got the care they need, making sure that we left behind a planet that is safe, 
making sure that hard working people had a lack of opportunity to support families who have just done amazing, remarkable work. Most of it unheralded, most of it without fanfare, 
most of it without you getting any word of thanks. We could not be proud of it. I could not be proud of it. This has been the privilege of my life, and I know it speaks for Michelle's Law, 
and we look forward to continuing this journey with all of you.

And I can't wait to see what you do next. And I promise you I'll be right, everyone. All right.
Thank you, everybody. Yes, we did.